CNI stands for Container Network Interface. As the name suggests, CNI works on the networking level where CNI takes care of the pods and other things in Kubernetes. CNI
ensures how the containers and pods should connect to the network. There are many CNIs available in the market but today we will discuss Calico CNI.

Calico is an open source network and network security designed for kubernetes. Calico works only on networking to provide fine-grained control overs the containers, pods, nodes or multiple clusters.

Alternatives of Calico:

1. Flannel
2. Weave
3. Cilium
4. Kube-router


Advantages of Calico:

● Advanced Networking Policies : With Calico CNI, we can define fine-grained networking policies over the containers or pods such as which pod can communicate
to which other pod and apply rules based on labels, ports, and more. This level of control is not possible through Kubernetes Native Networking.
● Scalability : Calico is known for its Scalability where it can handle large clusters with ease and efficiently manage network traffic which makes it suitable for
enterprise-level applications with multiple pods.
● Cross-Cluster Networking : Calico can be used to connect multiple Kubernetes clusters together, which can be beneficial in hybrid or multi-cluster scenarios.
● Border Gateway Protocol(BGP) routing : Calico supports BGP for routing which is quite good if you want to integrate with on-premises data centers or public cloud
environments.
● Security : Calico supports a very good level of security over the network traffic where Calico encrypts the network traffic so only authorized pods can communicate with
the respective pods.


Key Concepts and Real-time Example
● IP Address Management : Calico supports managing the IP address for each pod where each pod is assigned to a unique IP address from the cluster’s IP address
range.
● Routing and Network Policy : Calico enables routing for the network traffic between pods. The Network policies can be applied to control traffic between pods. So, you
can allow or deny communications between specific pods.
● Load Balancing : Calico handles load balancing in which it distributes the traffic between multiple pods.
● Security and Encryption : Calico provides security features to protect your Kubernetes clusters. It encrypts the network traffic so that you can ensure only
authorized pods can communicate.


